---
title: FAQs 2025
permalink: /sec-1-registration-2025/faq/
variant: markdown
description: ""
---
#### **Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)**

##### General Questions

**1.**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **How do I contact staff in Admiralty Secondary School**
<br>
If you have any general enquiries, you may email us at [**admiralty\_ss@moe.edu.sg**](mailto:admiralty_ss@moe.edu.sg) or call the General Office at 6365 1733

**2.**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **When are the school terms/school holidays?**
<br>
Information can be found [here.](https://www.moe.gov.sg/news/press-releases/20240812-school-terms-and-holidays-for-2025)

**3.**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Can I take my child for an overseas vacation during school term?**
<br>
Students should attend school during the school term to benefit fully from the learning experiences planned by teachers for their holistic development.

**4.**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Are there lockers available for rental?**
<br>
Due to low take-up rate, the rental of lockers has been discontinued. The school has students’ well-being in mind. Hence the daily timetable has been planned such that the amount of lesson materials needed for the day is manageable.

**5.**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Can Sec 1 students wear their primary school uniforms while they are waiting for results of transfer / waiting for uniform stock to arrive?**
<br>
Yes, they can.

**6.**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Where can I find a copy of the class timetable?**
<br>
A printed copy of the timetable will be given to students on the first day of school. A copy will also be uploaded on our school’s website under “Students”. The timetable may be refreshed at the start of Term 1, 2 and 3. This is to cater to the learning needs of the cohort.

**7.**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Are students allowed to bring mobile phones to school?**
<br>
Students are allowed to use them at Level 1 common areas during recess, before and after school.

**8.**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **How do I appeal to transfer to ADSS?**
<br>
You can send in your appeal through this **[link](https://go.gov.sg/admission-adss)**
 
##### CCA Matters
 
**1.**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Can students join more than one CCA?**
<br>
Students may join more than one CCA provided there are no clashes in the CCA schedules and they are able to manage the demands of school work.

##### PDLP Matters

**1. What is the PLD model prescribed by the school?**
<br>
The school prescribes to the usage of Chromebook and the specific model of the Chromebook will be provided at a later date. The cost of the Chromebook is approximately $550 - $600 (including GST) with a 3-year warranty and insurance.

**2. Can I pay for the PLD using my child’s Edusave Account?**
<br>
Students who are Singapore citizens can use their Edusave to pay fully or partly for the PLD, after setting aside provision for payment of their miscellaneous fees. Parents/Guardians can also choose to pay cash for the PLD. For students requiring financial assistance, further subsidies can be provided by MOE so that they do not have to incur any out-of-pocket expenses.

**3. Why is the warranty 3 years and not 4 years? Can I extend the warranty?**
<br>
Extended warranty beyond 3 years for the computing devices is not available in the open market. It would be very costly to incorporate such requirement and it makes more economical sense to replace the device when it is beyond economical repair after 3 years.

**4. Can my child opt not to purchase the Personal Learning Device (PLD)?**
<br>
Every student is required to have a PLD for teaching and learning purposes. We strongly encourage students to own the PLD model prescribed by the school to ensure a smooth learning experience.

**5. My child already has a learning device. If this can be used, do we need to buy new ones?**
<br>
We strongly encourage students to own the PLD model prescribed by the school to ensure a smooth learning experience. For students who wish to use their own devices, these devices must meet the necessary specifications such as processor speed and compatibility with the school’s Device Management Application (DMA). Please have your child bring the learning device to school and pass it to the General Office. We will check the suitability of the device for learning and advise accordingly thereafter.

**6. Can my child share one PLD with their siblings?**
<br>
For a smooth learning experience, it is strongly encouraged that each student has his/her own device as prescribed by the school. This is because different schools may tap on specific devices for teaching and learning. In addition, the student will be required to use the devices in school daily and for their learning after school, hence it might not be practical to share the device with their siblings.

**7. When will my child receive the PLD after placing an order?**
<br>
The estimated delivery date will be between March and April 2024. Teachers will be cognisant of this timeline and ensure teaching and learning with PLD will only take place after students have received their PLD.

**8. What is the Device Management Application (DMA)?**
<br>

It is a security and management software that is installed in all students’ PLDs. It comprises the following three services:

i.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mobile Device Management Service (facilitates remote deployment of teaching and learning applications and security patches)

ii.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Classroom Management Service (actively controls and monitors students’ use of PLD during lesson time to ensure effective teaching and learning)

iii.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Usage Management Service (monitor students’ usage and screen time to address cyber wellness concerns)

**9. Can I choose not to install the DMA in my child’s PLD?**
<br>
The DMA supports you and the school in managing your child’s PLD usage to ensure a meaningful digital learning experience for your child. As such, all PLDs need to be installed with the DMA before they can be used in school for teaching and learning purposes. PLD that is not installed with the DMA will not be allowed for use in school.

**10. Is the DMA enforced 24/7?**
<br>
While the DMA is installed in all PLDs, school will only enforce control during school hours as follows:

**Mon – Thu:** 0700h – 1500h
<br>
**Fri:**  0700h – 1300h&nbsp;
<br><br>
DMA control will not be enforced during weekends, public holidays and school vacation periods.

**11. Is there parental control function in the DMA?**
<br>
Yes, there is parental control function in DMA. Parents will be able to manage this control to control your child’s screen time at home, filter contents and monitor their online activities and usage. More information will be shared at a later date.

**12. What kind of learning apps will my child be using in school?**
<br>
Teachers will be using the Singapore Student Learning Space (SLS) to carry out effective teaching while students will be able to tap on the SLS to access quality learning resources.
<br>
In addition, the following apps or software may also be used in your child’s secondary education journey with ADSS.

* Google Suites such as Google Classroom, Google Doc and Google Slides
* Microsoft apps such as Word, Excel and OneNote
* E-textbook apps
* Programming app such as UiFlow
* Subject-specific learning app such as Geogebra
<br>

##### On FSBB

**1. What is Full Subject-Based Banding (FSBB)?**
<br>
Full Subject-Based Banding (FSBB) is part of MOE's ongoing efforts to nurture the joy of learning and develop multiple pathways to cater to the different strengths and interests of our students.

With Full SBB, we are moving towards a secondary school education where students learn each subject at the level that best caters to their overall strengths, interests and learning needs.

More details can be found in school website under FSBB.

**2. How will Full SBB affect my child’s access to post-sec pathways?**
<br>
From 2027, students will sit for the new SEC examinations, with different papers for each subject level.

Admission criteria have been progressively updated to recognise students taking different combinations of subjects and subject levels.

E.g., Polytechnic Foundation Programme (PFP) will be&nbsp;expanded to allow access to students offering G3 subjects, or a mix of G2 and G3 subjects.

**3. What is a Mixed Form Class? What are the objectives of having Mixed Form Classes?**
<br>
Sec 1 Admirals will be placed in form classes with a mix of students from different posting group: G1,G2 and G3. Mixed form classes present more opportunities for students to interact with other students with different strengths and interests. This opportunity will level everyone up holistically.

**4. In the mixed form classes, will the quality and rigour of teaching be compromised in order to accommodate different posting groups? Will the students be learning a common curriculum for subjects at a common level?**
<br>
For the common curriculum subjects taught in the mixed form classes, students will continue to experience a high level of quality and rigour in teaching. While the learning outcomes will be common for all students, teachers will differentiate their teaching to meet the needs of a class of students with different learning abilities, using a range of teaching approaches. This will benefit all students as they learn through different experiences and ways of thinking.

**5. What are the subjects involved in common curriculum and how are they conducted?**
<br>
Subjects like D&amp;T, FCE, Art, PE, Music and CCE will have a common curriculum for all posting groups.&nbsp;

These lessons will be conducted at a common level regardless of posting group.

Our teachers will&nbsp; adopt a variety of pedagogical approaches to cater to the different learning needs of students.

**6. How will your school ensure that students from different posting group and backgrounds would be able to socialise well?**
<br>
Our school fosters a caring and supportive culture from the start of the school year. To facilitate positive relationships, we will have programmes to strengthen the bonds between teachers and students and among peers, establish a strong sense of class identity and belonging to the school community, and empower students to develop healthy self-concepts and grow to the best of their abilities.

**7. How will FSBB affect the subjects taken by my child?**
<br>
At the start of Secondary One, students may offer the PSLE subjects at a more demanding level based on their individual AL score. For example, if your child is in PG2 but did well in a subject, (s)he might be offered a chance to take that subject at the G3 level.

Beyond the start of Secondary One, students may offer subjects at a more demanding level based on their performance in the subject in secondary school and a holistic assessment by the school to ensure that the student can cope with the subject and overall workload.

**8. Why should my child take up the subjects offered at a more demanding level?**
<br>
* Nurture their strengths and give them more opportunities throughout their educational journey
* Greater engagement in their learning.
* To build a stronger foundation in subjects that they are good at.

**9. Can I reject the offer to allow my child to take the subject at a more demanding level?**
<br>
Yes, you can, but do consider the benefits of this offer – Nurture their strengths and give them more opportunities throughout their educational journey (Polytechnic/ITE admission), greater engagement in their learning, build a stronger foundation in subjects that they are good at.

**10. What should I consider when deciding if I want to take up the offer?**
<br>
* Materials for the more demanding course must be purchased;
* Interests of your child;
* Learning style of your child;
* Time-management

**11. If my child rejects the offer of taking subject(s) at a more demanding level now, can (s)he take it up again later?**
<br>
If your child continues to do well, (s)he may be offered again. However, (s)he would miss out the rigour that has been covered earlier and would need to attend bridging lessons to level up what s(he) has missed. As such, it would be highly encouraged for your child to take it on as early as possible.

**12. What if my child takes it up but is not doing well? Can I switch back to a less demanding level?**
<br>
Your child is encouraged to continue with the subject(s) at the more demanding level until the end of Sec 2, given that students need time to adjust to both secondary school life and to the more demanding subject.

Progress at the higher-level subjects as well as overall progress in all subjects is closely monitored.

Support will be given to help your child cope.

Before a decision is made to switch the level, students should sought the advice from subject teachers.

The school will also advise on the possible impact on admission to post-secondary courses.

**13. Will taking subjects at more demanding level give my child more stress?**
<br>
Your child will be monitored and supported.&nbsp;

Our school is mindful of students’ socio-emotional and academic needs and will endeavour to provide the necessary support to help them cope.

Since your child was offered the chance to take a subject at a more demanding level, it would be based on his or her strength in the subject.


##### Mother Tongue Languages (MTL)

**1. Can my child ‘drop’ MTL**
<br>
Bilingual policy is a cornerstone of Singapore’s education. Under our bilingual policy, all students are required to offer English and a Mother Tongue Language (MTL). Students in mainstream schools are required to offer a MTL subject and sit for the national examination at the end of secondary school.

If the child has reasons (e.g., special educational needs) that may impede his/her ability to do MTL, parents may submit application for MTL exemption to Ministry of Education through the school.

Please approach the HOD/MTL for more information.

**2. My child has received MOE approval to offer Foreign Language (FL) or Asian Language (AsL) in lieu of an official MTL (not as 3rd language) in primary school, do I need to re-apply for approval?**
<br>
You are not required to re-apply for approval.

However, you will need to make private study arrangements for your child and ensure that your private education provider can prepare your child for the GCE O-Level examinations at the end of secondary school.